# 03/06
## 今日学习记录
### "Hello Android" Chapter 1 (Fast-Forward )
#### Running on a Real Device

On Android 4.2 and above, you need to enable developer mode on the device itself by starting the Settings application and selecting “About phone” or “About tablet” and tapping on the Build number seven times (that’s a little Easter egg from the Android developers). 

#### SDK Packages
- Android SDK Tools
    Software development kit
- Android SDK Platform-tools
    Low-level tools like adb (Android Debug Bridge)
- Android SDK Build-tools
    Required for building
- Android 5.1 (API 22) (or later)
    Install all components for the highest version available

Under the Extras category, install these if they’re not already installed:
- Android Support Repository
    Needed by gradle
- Android Support Library
    For compatibility with older Android versions
- Google Play services
    Value-added library that contains many nice features
- Google Repository
    Needed by gradle
- Google USB Driver (Windows only)
    Allows you to run and debug programs on real devices
- Intel x86 Emulator Accelerator
    Add-on package to make the emulator faster
    
### "Hello Android" Chapter 2 (Key Concepts)    
#### Android 总览
(图片)

##### Linux Kernel

Android is built on top of a solid and proven foundation: the Linux kernel.

Android uses Linux for its memory management, process management, networking, and other operating system services. The Android user will never see Linux, and your programs will not usually make Linux calls directly. 

##### Native Libraries
The next layer above the kernel contains the Android native libraries. These shared libraries are all written in C or C++, compiled for the particular hardware architecture used by the Android device, and preinstalled by the vendor.

一些常见的功能：

|功能|说明|
|----|----|
|Surface Manager | Instead of drawing directly to the screen, your drawing commands are saved into lists that are then combined with lists fromother windows and are then composited to form the display the user sees.This lets the system create all sorts of interesting effects, such as seethrough windows and fancy transitions.|
|2D and 3D graphics | Two- and three-dimensional elements can be combined in a single user interface with Android. Everything is converted into 3D drawing lists and rendered by hardware for the fastest possible experience.|
|Media codecs | Android can play video and record and play back audio in various formats, including AAC, AVC (H.264), H.263, MP3, and MPEG-4.|
|SQL database | Android includes the lightweight SQLite database engine, the same database used in Firefox and the Apple iPhone. You can use this for persistent storage in your application.|
|Browser engine | For the fast display of HTML content, Android uses the Chromium library. This is the same engine used in the Google Chrome browser, and it’s a close cousin of the one used in Apple’s Safari browser and the Apple iPhone.|

These libraries aren’t applications that stand by themselves. They exist only to be called by higher-level programs. You can write and deploy your own native libraries using the Native Development Toolkit (NDK). 

##### Android Runtime
On top of the kernel is the Android runtime, including the runtime environment and the core Java libraries. Depending on the version of Android, the environment uses either Dalvik or ART.

Dalvik is a virtual machine (VM).
ART (Android Runtime) is an ahead-of-time compiler that replaced Dalvik in
Android 5.0 (Lollipop). 

Dalvik and ART are Google’s semi-compatible implementation of Java, optimized for mobile devices. All the code you write for Android will be written in Java and run by Dalvik or ART.

##### Application Framework
Sitting above the native libraries and runtime, you’ll find the Application Framework layer. This layer provides the high-level building blocks you’ll use to create your applications. 

一些常见的framework:

|功能|说明|
|----|----|
|Activity manager | This controls the life cycle of applications and maintains a common “backstack” for user navigation.|
|Content providers | These objects encapsulate data that needs to be shared between applications, such as contacts. |
|Resource manager | Resources are anything that goes with your program that is not code.|
|Location manager | An Android device always knows where it is. |
|Notification manager | Events such as arriving messages, appointments, proximity alerts, alien invasions, and more can be presented in an unobtrusive fashion to the user.|

##### Applications and Services
The highest layer in the Android architecture diagram is the Applications and Services layer. 

Applications are programs that can take over the whole screen and interact with the user. On the other hand, services operate invisibly to extend the application framework. 

#### Building Blocks
A few objects are defined in the Android SDK that every developer needs to be familiar with. The most important ones are activities, fragments, views, intents, services, and content providers.

##### Activities
An activity is a user interface screen. Applications can define one or more activities to handle different phases of the program. 

##### Fragments
A fragment is a component of an activity. Usually they’re displayed on the screen, but they don’t have to be. 

##### Views
A view is the smallest level of the user interface. Views are contained directly by activities or by fragments inside activities. They can be created by Java code, or preferably, by XML layouts. Each view has a series of attributes, or properties, that control what it does, how it acts, and what it displays.

##### Intents
An intent is a mechanism for describing a specific action.
 
##### Services
A service is a task that runs in the background without the user’s direct interaction, similar to a Unix daemon.  
 
##### Content Providers
A content provider is a set of data wrapped up in a custom API to read and write it. This is the best way to share global data between applications. 

##### Using Resources
A resource is a localized text string, bitmap, or other small piece of noncode information that your program needs. At build time all your resources get compiled into your application. This is useful for internationalization and for supporting multiple device types

You’ll create and store your resources in the `res ` directory inside your project. The Android resource compiler (aapt) processes resources according to which subfolder they’re in and the format of the file. 

The resource compiler compresses and packs your resources and then generates a class named R that contains identifiers you use to reference those resources in your program. 

This is a little different from standard Java resources, which are referenced by key strings. Doing it this way allows Android to make sure all your references are valid and saves space by not having to store all those resource keys. 

##### It’s Alive!
On your standard Linux or Windows desktop, you can have many applications running and visible at once in different windows. 
One of the windows has keyboard focus, but otherwise all the programs are equal. You can easily switch between them, but it’s your responsibility as the user to move the windows around so you can see what you’re doing and close programs you don’t need.

###### Process != Application
Internally, each user interface screen is represented by an Activity class. Each activity has its own life cycle. An application is one or more activities plus a Linux process to contain them. T

In Android, an application can be “alive” even if its process has been killed. Put another way, the activity life cycle isn’t tied to the process life cycle. Processes are just disposable containers for activities.

###### Life Cycles of the Rich and Famous
During its lifetime, each activity of an Android program can be in one of several states.
The developer, don’t have control over what state your program is in. That’s all managed by the system.
However, you do get notified when the state is about to change through the onXX() method calls.


You override these methods in your Activity class, and Android will call them at the appropriate time:

- onCreate(Bundle): 
    This is called when the activity first starts up. You can use it to perform one-time initialization such as creating the user interface. onCreate() takes one parameter that is either null or some state information previously saved by the onSaveInstanceState() method.
- onStart(): 
    This indicates the activity is about to be displayed to the user.
- onResume(): 
    This is called when your activity can start interacting with the user. This is a good place to start animations and music.
- onPause(): 
    This runs when the activity is about to go into the background, usually because another activity has been launched in front of it. This is where you should save your program’s persistent state, such as a database record being edited.
- onStop(): 
    This is called when your activity is no longer visible to the user and it won’t be needed for a while. If memory is tight, onStop() may never be called (the system may simply terminate your process).
- onRestart(): 
    If this method is called, it indicates your activity is being redisplayed to the user from a stopped state.
- onDestroy(): 
    This is called right before your activity is destroyed. If memory is tight, onDestroy() may never be called (the system may simply terminate your process).
- onSaveInstanceState(Bundle): 
    Android will call this method to allow the activity to save per-instance state, such as a cursor position within a text field. Usually you won’t need to override it because the default implementation saves the state for all your user interface controls automatically.
- onRestoreInstanceState(Bundle): 
    This is called when the activity is being reinitialized from a state previously saved by the onSaveInstanceState() method. The default implementation restores the state of your user interface.

##### Safe and Secure
Every application runs in its own Linux process.
In addition, access to certain critical operations is restricted, and you must
specifically ask for permission to use them in a file named `AndroidManifest.xml ` .
When the application is installed, the Package Manager either grants or doesn’t
grant the permissions based on certificates and, if necessary, user prompts.

- INTERNET : Access the Internet.
- READ_CONTACTS : Read (but don’t write) the user’s contacts data.
- WRITE_CONTACTS : Write (but don’t read) the user’s contacts data.
- RECEIVE_SMS : Monitor incoming SMS (text) messages.
- ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION : Use a coarse location provider such as cell towers
or Wi-Fi.
- ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION : Use a more accurate location provider such as GPS.

### 手动生成APK文件的步骤
(内容来源QQ 看点阅读。文件已经保存到有道云笔记)。

1. 根据资源文件和AndroidManifest.xml 生成R.java 文件
2. 处理AIDL，生成对应的Java文件，如果没有AIDL 则跳过
3. 利用javac 编译所以的java文件，生成.class 文件
4. 将.class 文件打包生成.dex 文件
5. 将资源文件打包，生成初始的apk
6. 将` 4. ` 生成的.dex 文件加入到apk中生成未签名的包
7. apk 签名

















