# 03/07
## 今日学习记录
### "Hello Android" Chapter 3 (Opening Moves )
#### Designing in XML
There are two ways to define a user interface in Android: in code, or in XML.

XML is usually recommended because it’s easier to create and style than the equivalent Java code.

##### Creating the Main Screen
Here’s a summary of the most common types you’re likely to need in your programs:

- FrameLayout   
    Shows one or more child views on top of each other.
- GridLayout
    Arranges its child views into rows and columns.
- LinearLayout
    Displays its children in a single column or row.
- RelativeLayout
    A flexible layout that arranges views in relation to other views.

Main Screen .XML file:
> ticTacToev1/src/main/res/layout/activity_main.xml
```xml
<FrameLayout
    xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="match_parent"
    android:clipChildren="false"
    tools:context=".TicTacToeActivity">
   
    <fragment
        android:id="@+id/main_fragment"
        class="org.example.tictactoe.MainFragment"
        android:layout_width="wrap_content"
        android:layout_height="wrap_content"
        android:layout_gravity="center"
        tools:layout="@layout/fragment_main"/>
</FrameLayout>
```

###### Attributes of the FrameLayout tag
Every XML tag has attributes that control what it does. Let’s look at the attributes that we set on the FrameLayout tag more closely:

- xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    Defines the android namespace, 5 so that android: will be accepted in subse-quent attribute names.
- xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools"
    Defines the tools namespace.
- android:layout_width="match_parent"
    Sets the width of the view to cover the entire width of the parent. Since this is the top-level element, that means it will cover the screen. Possible values are match_parent , wrap_content , or an absolute width value.
- android:layout_height="match_parent"
    Sets the height of the view to cover the height of the parent (screen). Every view has to have a width and height.
- tools:context=".TicTacToeActivity"
    Indicates that this layout file is used by the TicTacToeActivity class. Unlike the other attributes, this one is just for the visual editor and isn’t used at runtime.

###### Attributes of the fragment Tag
Here’s the meaning of all the attributes we used on the fragment tag:
- android:id="@+id/fragment_main"
    Defines a new resource identifier called fragment_main that can be used in code or other XML attributes. “@+” means we’re defining something new, whereas “@” means we’re referring to something already defined elsewhere.
- class="org.example.tictactoe.MainFragment"
    Lets Android know that this fragment is an instance of the MainFragment class. In other words, when Android goes to create this object from the XML, it will actually create a MainFragment . This class will be defined in Defining a Fragment in the Main Activity, on page 41.
- android:layout_width="wrap_content"
    Sets the width of the fragment to be defined by the width of its content.
- android:layout_height="wrap_content"
    Sets the height of the fragment to the height of its content.
- android:layout_gravity="center"
    Centers this fragment inside its parent. Possible values include top , bottom , left , right , top , bottom , center , and fill , among others. Gravity values can be combined using a vertical bar—for example, top|right .
- tools:layout="@layout/fragment_main"
    Refers to another XML file that defines the contents of this fragment.    
    
#### Creating the Main Fragment
Text views are probably the most common type of user interface element that
you’ll encounter in Android development. 

Here are a few more:
- Button
    A push-button control.
- CheckBox
    A two-state button for a multiple choice list.
- EditText
    An editable text view. 
- ImageButton
   A button that displays an image instead of text.
- ListView
   Shows items in a vertically scrolling list.
- RadioButton
   A single selection two-state button.
- VideoView
   Displays a video file.
- WebView
   Displays web pages.

For a full list, see the documentation of the View class.
    
##### Attributes of the LinearLayout Tag
Here are the new attributes on the LinearLayout tag:
- android:background="@drawable/menu_background"
    Sets a background drawable for the entire view. A drawable can be a color, image, or compound object defined in another XML file. More on that in a moment.
- android:elevation="@dimen/elevation_high"
    Raises the view off the canvas by a small amount. This causes a shadow to be drawn under the view in Android 5.0 (Lollipop) and later. Like all unrecognized attributes, it will be ignored if you run the program on older versions. Instead of specifying the amount with a number, we refer to a dimension that will be defined in another XML file.
- android:orientation="vertical"
    Specifies direction of the layout. Possible values are vertical , which arranges the children in a column, and horizontal , which arranges them in a row. If you need both horizontal and vertical, you’ll have to use a different layout such as GridLayout .
- android:padding="@dimen/menu_padding"
    Tells Android to leave a little space all around the inside of the view. If you need the space to be outside the view, use margin instead.

##### Attributes of the TextView Tag
We use the following attributes on the TextView tag:
- android:layout_marginBottom="@dimen/menu_space"
    This is used on the text view to leave a gap between the text and the buttons.
- android:text="@string/long_app_name"
    Specifies the text to display. In this case it’s a reference to the long_app_name value defined in the strings file.
- android:textAppearance="?android:textAppearanceLarge"
    Makes the text larger and bolder than usual. The “?” means this is a reference to a constant defined in the current theme. A theme defines hundreds of constants to control the appearance and behavior of every view in the app. See Styles and Themes, on page 46 for more info.
- android:textSize="@dimen/menu_text_size"
    Even with the textAppearance attribute, the text looked like it needed to be a little larger, so we hard-coded a bigger size here.

##### Attributes of the Button Tag
The Button tag uses these attributes:
- android:layout_margin="@dimen/menu_button_margin"
    Allows for some extra space around the outside of the button.
- android:padding="@dimen/menu_button_padding"
    Specifies some extra space inside the button as well.
- android:text="@string/continue_label"
    Displays text on the button. This is another reference to the strings file.


    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    