# 03/08
## 今日学习记录
### "Hello Android" Chapter 3 (Opening Moves )
#### Filling In the Code
#### Defining the Main Activity
这里主要用来定义主界面的显示内容。

#### Defining a Fragment in the Main Activity

#### Defining Resources  
共有下列几类的Resources: 
   
1. String            
        strings.xml resource file in the res/values folder.
        以 \< string name="You_name"\>You_Value\</string\>  定义.                     
    
2. Dimensions    
        dimens.xml in the res/values folder.
        以 \< dimen name="You_name"\>You_Value\</dimen\>  定义.            
    
3. Drawables
    Drawables are any kind of graphical objects that can be drawn on the screen.
    Drawables can also be created in XML. Put it in the res/drawable folder.
            
    Here are the most common types of drawables:
    - Bitmap file  
      
        A picture in PNG, JPG, or GIF format. PNG bitmaps can be partially transparent.
    - Nine-patch file
    
        A PNG with stretchable regions to allow resizing based on content.
    - Layer list
    
        An array of other drawables, drawn in order.
    - State list
    
        A list of alternatives for different states.
    - Level list
    
        A list of alternatives for different level values.
    - Shape
    
        A geometric figure including lines and color            
    
4. Colors
        colors.xml in the res/values folder.

5. Styles and Themes
        Styles and themes play an important role in how your app looks.
        A theme is a collection of styles, and a style is a set of values that control appearances and behaviors.

#### Dps vs. Sps
Android supports all the following units:
- px (pixels): 
    Dots on the screen.
- in (inches): 
    Size as measured by a ruler.
- mm (millimeters): 
    Size as measured by a ruler.
- pt (points): 
    1/72 of an inch.
- dp (density-independent pixels): 
    An abstract unit based on the density of the screen. On a display with 160 dots per inch, 1dp = 1px.
- dip: 
    Synonym for dp.
- sp (scale-independent pixels): 
    Similar to dp but also scaled by the user’s font size preference.

#### Debugging
##### Debugging with Log Messages
The class provides several static methods to print messages of various severity levels to the Android system log:
- Log.e(): Errors
- Log.w(): Warnings
- Log.i(): Information
- Log.d(): Debugging
- Log.v(): Verbose
- Log.wtf(): What a Terrible Failure

Simply add lines to the program such as
```java
    Log.d("UT3", "Got to point A");
```
and next time you run the program they’ll show up in the log.

##### Debugging with the Debugger
debug the program when the program run.

##### Testing

- Unit tests  
 
    Check the low-level functionality of your program. They’re based on the JUnit framework and are supported by Android Studio and gradle

- User interface tests 

    Verify that your user interface is functional. Generally they do so by driving your user interface through a series of interactions via a scripting language.

- Monkey tests

    Try to break your program by bombarding it with random input. Imagine thousands of monkeys lined up in a room, pressing random buttons on the screen until something crashes.














